README.md, before:

# M-App Install (Ruby)

Ruby-based multi-app installer for AllStarLink v3. Installs **AllScan**, **DVSwitch Server**, **Supermon-NG**, **SkywarnPlus-NG**, **saytime-weather-rb**, **sayip-node-utils**, and **internet-monitor** (primarily for mobile nodes).

## Requirements

- Ruby 3.x (stdlib only; no gems)
- **Run with sudo only, from a user account.** The script must be invoked as `sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb ...` while logged in as a normal user. Do **not** run it as root (e.g. after `su -` or root login), and do **not** run it as a normal user without `sudo`—it will exit with an error. This ensures installers that need a non-root user (e.g. SkywarnPlus-NG with `-w`) run correctly.

## Download & permissions

Download the latest script to your home directory and make it executable:

```bash
cd "$HOME"
wget -O asl3_mapp.rb "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hardenedpenguin/asl3_mapps/refs/heads/main/asl3_mapp.rb"
chmod +x asl3_mapp.rb
```

## Usage

Run the script **with sudo** from your **user account** (not as root):

```bash
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -a          # AllScan only
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -d          # DVSwitch only
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -s          # Supermon-NG only
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -w          # SkywarnPlus-NG only (install.sh runs as you)
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -y          # saytime-weather-rb only
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -i          # sayip-node-utils (prompts for NODE_NUMBER)
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -m          # internet-monitor (mobile nodes; prompts for NODE_NUMBER)
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -a -d -s -w -y -i -m # All seven
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -h          # Help
```

## Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-a` | Install AllScan |
| `-d` | Install DVSwitch Server |
| `-s` | Install Supermon-NG |
| `-w` | Install SkywarnPlus-NG (must run with `sudo` so install.sh runs as your user) |
| `-y` | Install saytime-weather-rb (Ruby saytime + weather) |
| `-i` | Install sayip-node-utils (prompts for NODE_NUMBER) |
| `-m` | Install internet-monitor (mobile nodes; prompts for NODE_NUMBER) |
| `-h` | Show help |

## DVSwitch security notice (crypto policy change)

When you install **DVSwitch** (`-d`), this installer makes a **system crypto-policy override for APT/Sequoia** to extend SHA1 acceptance that some DVSwitch-related downloads/metadata may still require.

- **What it does**:
  - Creates: `/etc/crypto-policies/back-ends/` (if missing)
  - Copies (if missing): `/usr/share/apt/default-sequoia.config` → `/etc/crypto-policies/back-ends/apt-sequoia.config`
  - Ensures this line is set in `apt-sequoia.config`:
    - `sha1.second_preimage_resistance = 2026-06-01`

- **Security impact**: this is a deliberate **weakening of SHA1-related policy** for APT’s Sequoia backend. It’s done only when `-d` is requested, but the resulting config file is **system-wide** until you revert it.

- **How to revert** (if you don’t want this after DVSwitch install):
  - Remove the override file: `sudo rm -f /etc/crypto-policies/back-ends/apt-sequoia.config`
  - (Optional) reboot or restart relevant services / rerun your distro’s crypto-policy tooling if applicable.

## Paths

- Log: `/var/log/m_app_install.log`
- Temp: `/var/tmp/m_app_install` (removed after run)

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later (see script header).

Commit message:

Docs: warn ASL3 Trixie /tmp and /var/tmp noexec
Add warning that ASL3 Trixie image mounts /tmp and /var/tmp as tmpfs
with noexec; /etc/fstab must be adjusted for script to work.

Signed-off-by: Jory A. Pratt <geekypenguin@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# M-App Install (Ruby)

Ruby-based multi-app installer for AllStarLink v3. Installs **AllScan**, **DVSwitch Server**, **Supermon-NG**, **SkywarnPlus-NG**, **saytime-weather-rb**, **sayip-node-utils**, and **internet-monitor** (primarily for mobile nodes).

## Requirements

- Ruby 3.x (stdlib only; no gems)
- **Run with sudo only, from a user account.** The script must be invoked as `sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb ...` while logged in as a normal user. Do **not** run it as root (e.g. after `su -` or root login), and do **not** run it as a normal user without `sudo`—it will exit with an error. This ensures installers that need a non-root user (e.g. SkywarnPlus-NG with `-w`) run correctly.

## Warning: ASL3 Trixie image (/tmp and /var/tmp)

On the **ASL3 Trixie image**, `/tmp` and `/var/tmp` are mounted as **tmpfs with `noexec`**. This prevents the script from running installers and extracted binaries that live under `/var/tmp/m_app_install`. **You must adjust `/etc/fstab`** so that `/tmp` and/or `/var/tmp` are either not tmpfs or are mounted **without** `noexec` (e.g. add `exec` to the options, or use a different mount). After changing `/etc/fstab`, remount or reboot before running this script.

## Download & permissions

Download the latest script to your home directory and make it executable:

```bash
cd "$HOME"
wget -O asl3_mapp.rb "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hardenedpenguin/asl3_mapps/refs/heads/main/asl3_mapp.rb"
chmod +x asl3_mapp.rb
```

## Usage

Run the script **with sudo** from your **user account** (not as root):

```bash
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -a          # AllScan only
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -d          # DVSwitch only
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -s          # Supermon-NG only
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -w          # SkywarnPlus-NG only (install.sh runs as you)
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -y          # saytime-weather-rb only
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -i          # sayip-node-utils (prompts for NODE_NUMBER)
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -m          # internet-monitor (mobile nodes; prompts for NODE_NUMBER)
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -a -d -s -w -y -i -m # All seven
sudo ./asl3_mapp.rb -h          # Help
```

## Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-a` | Install AllScan |
| `-d` | Install DVSwitch Server |
| `-s` | Install Supermon-NG |
| `-w` | Install SkywarnPlus-NG (must run with `sudo` so install.sh runs as your user) |
| `-y` | Install saytime-weather-rb (Ruby saytime + weather) |
| `-i` | Install sayip-node-utils (prompts for NODE_NUMBER) |
| `-m` | Install internet-monitor (mobile nodes; prompts for NODE_NUMBER) |
| `-h` | Show help |

## DVSwitch security notice (crypto policy change)

When you install **DVSwitch** (`-d`), this installer makes a **system crypto-policy override for APT/Sequoia** to extend SHA1 acceptance that some DVSwitch-related downloads/metadata may still require.

- **What it does**:
  - Creates: `/etc/crypto-policies/back-ends/` (if missing)
  - Copies (if missing): `/usr/share/apt/default-sequoia.config` → `/etc/crypto-policies/back-ends/apt-sequoia.config`
  - Ensures this line is set in `apt-sequoia.config`:
    - `sha1.second_preimage_resistance = 2026-06-01`

- **Security impact**: this is a deliberate **weakening of SHA1-related policy** for APT’s Sequoia backend. It’s done only when `-d` is requested, but the resulting config file is **system-wide** until you revert it.

- **How to revert** (if you don’t want this after DVSwitch install):
  - Remove the override file: `sudo rm -f /etc/crypto-policies/back-ends/apt-sequoia.config`
  - (Optional) reboot or restart relevant services / rerun your distro’s crypto-policy tooling if applicable.

## Paths

- Log: `/var/log/m_app_install.log`
- Temp: `/var/tmp/m_app_install` (removed after run)

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later (see script header).
